Hello everyone and welcome back in this lecture we're going to be able to take our sprites that we've
made and in almost one click generate something like this a sprite sheet.
Now you may notice in especially in this one the bouncing ball when we have a look at the auto generated
sprite sheet when this is applied.
It doesn't look quite right.
So there's a little nuance to using the tool but we'll soon find out how fused layers can really speed
up your workflow.
OK.
So now that we're over in gimp the first thing that we need to do is get ourselves an animation that
we've already made but that still has the layers intact.
So in this case I'm going to go and open up that bouncy ball the jello ball that we made earlier on
in this section and I'm going to go straight away and go to filters combine and use the fuse layers
that we installed moments ago when we go ahead and do that.
It gives us an option just one single option and that's how many layers are going across the left.
So in this particular case we have 20 layers.
So if we make it five across it will be four deep five times four is 20 et cetera et cetera.
So I'm going to just leave that as five.
That's the one I've been playing with.
If it was one it would be one high in 20 long et cetera et cetera.
And this is a very rapid way of generating a sprite sheet like that.
Isn't that wonderful.
Now looking at it you may notice that it's backwards.
So one of the downsides of this tool is it doesn't put things in the same order that you've assembled
in animation you'd have should you have to go through your layers themselves and invert them putting
them the other way.
Now fortunately gimp has a built in way where we can flip all of the layers with one click.
Very useful in this case because even though this is 20 frames long it's going to take a good two minutes
to reorder it.
I don't really want to do that.
So we can flip the entire layout ORDER BY GOING TO THE LAYER menu and going to stack which is the stack
of all of these items here and we've got reverse layer order.
The moment we do that now when we go to our filters go to combine and do fused layers.
We will get out the sprite sheets in the right order.
Now the downside of doing this is we produce a sprite sheet that is not a power of 2.
So if there's any MIP mapping or any compression that's going to be done on this Sprite that may cause
issues and it may also cause issues with bleeding in and out of the particular sprites.
Now in this case we do have a large area of white so it's very unlikely there's going to be any bleeding
between the individual images but with different sprites that may not be the case.
One of the things to bear in mind when you're doing this of course is you can make a power of two if
you have the right number of images.
So if we go back to our original hair and decide that we can completely cap the first two sets delete
the first two and the last two we've now got 16 images.
So if we go ahead with filters combine and fuse layers and have four because 16 we'll have four going
down and then we have a look at the very top.
We've got 512 by 512 and under image you'll see that you also have on the canvas size the 512 by 512
as well.
So you can go about it that way as well.
So it's much much quicker making a sprite sheet that way once you've got the layers in the right order
reading from the top left to the bottom right.
However it does come with some caveats as most things do when they're automatic and one click.
You just have to live with some of the effects.
So there's a little bit of work to do.
Just to remind you here the process if you've already made an animation you're going to have to invert
the layer order with layer stack and reverse the layer order.
Now in this particular case if we go to the one I made that ended up 640 by 512.
What you can do at that point to make it a power of two is add in the space that's missing.
Now in this case it's probably best to work out how many across you are going to need any way to reach
1024 but we can at this point go to image canvas size and make this longest sized 1 0 2 4 and that will
make the entire image a power of 2.
As you can see there's a bit of dead space on the end.
Now the way that this would be read by a game engine it would actually put blank frames in for three.
It looks like three frames there.
So if we have one two three four five six seven eight.
So in this particular case if we go back to our original that we had I'm going to undo those changes
going back to our base.
Oh I do want to reverse the lower order.
That's fine.
And now if we go to filters combine and fuse layers and that she put eight in it will end up 1024 by
3 8 4.
Then we can go to image canvas size.
Change this to five twelve.
And lo behold we would have generated the same sprite sheet that we made in a previous lecture automatically
and with less steps.
It doesn't give us the control that we would otherwise have.
But there you go.
We've managed to put everything in order very very quickly indeed.
And now you've got that knowledge of course we need to solidify that with a challenge.
So go ahead create a spreadsheet using fused layers test that the sprite sheet works.
Now you can use one of the online tools that we found before or indeed if you were capable of using
a game engine and you're actually making your art.
Now to go into a game engine then in unity or unreal whatever to test it in that as well as a sprite
she really honed those skills bring it right through the graphics and art pipeline into the game engine.
And how about practicing your skills so far and creating a new animation perhaps something different
from what you've been working on so far.
Go ahead pause video and give that a go Okay everyone welcome back.
Let's go and create a new sprite sheet using fused layers
okay.
So back in Gimp I'm not going to go ahead and create something in this particular challenge example
I'm going to go and find one of the pieces that I've used in the past.
You may remember seeing the explosion and I'm going to go find that and incorporate it into a sprite
sheet okay.
So here we go I've got a lo fi explosion.
It splits into multiple layers.
However they're all in one layer group and that was so I could move them to a new place.
So I'm going to have to first take them out of the layer group hopefully in the right order so that
I can just join them all together and we can see there.
I've got an uneven amount so that's go ahead we're almost done here and we've definitely got a layering
issue here if I'm not careful.
Call layer cop before is actually the first frame.
So we've got a bit of a naming issue here as well if we're not careful.
I can go in and rename those I'm not going to do that in this particular lecture.
It's not about naming.
I've got them all laid out there I can see it's 64 by 64.
And I have 14 of them.
So it's going to be probably four or eight across to make sure we get the right number in.
I'm going to go to the layer stack reverse the layer order.
So it starts at the beginning at the top and works its way down and then go to filters combine fuse
layers.
Now I said eight before I'm going to go for eight and that looks absolutely fine.
I'm gonna go ahead and save that as an explosion sprite sheet is important to save you work regularly.
There we go.
And of course I need to export that.
Let's export stars and then I'm gonna pop this in the same folder that I'm working in and export.
Great.
So now let's go ahead and see whether the sprite she animates as I would expect it to okay.
So let's go ahead and load up my file now that that's loaded up 64 by 64 is fine.
That looks like it's exploding and then stopping for some reason what was the reason for that.
Well the frame count is not correct.
Now I think I've got 14 frames.
I did not count.
I really should have done so let's go see and the numbers aren't going to help yes I am going to have
to it's 1 2 THREE FOUR FIVE SIX SEVEN EIGHT.
I think we've got 15 in total so let's go back.
Change this from 14 to 15 frame time Campbell.
Let's make it a rapid explosion maybe make it 50 milliseconds in between.
Boom you see that.
That's that I think that's a little quicker shear.
And I do think this was designed to be at 10 frames per second.
There we go.
Boom.
I like how that's turned out.
Let me zoom in so everybody can see it's a bit better because it is a small 64 by 64.
Yep.
I really like how that's turned out.
How did you guys get on.
I'd love to see what you guys have made and I will see you will in the next lecture.